okay everyone welcome back to base in
the podcast today we have the pleasure
of talking with one of the greatest
minds in our industry he has a PhD in
sports science he's the author of
several books including gluten lap he's
the inventor of the hip thruster and a
coach specializes in training women he's
famously known as the glute guy please
welcome Brett Contreras hi Brad thank
you for having me on I appreciate it to
have you on the show now for our
audience I'm sure a lot of them know who
you are and have heard about you
especially because we specialize in
training women as well we are sure lots
of the girls that we train have heard of
the glute guy but can you please share a
little bit about who you are and how the
guy was born so about me I'm speaking in
my gym in San Diego
yup got I consider myself a lifter first
because I still I'm 43 years old but I'm
still going for gains myself I still
experiment with my training I try new
things and I'm always wanting that
wanting to be a little bit more jacked a
little bit stronger gets harder and
harder he's been training long or longer
but I'm still setting PRS you know and
then a coach second I coached tons and
tons of women and tons of both in real
life and online and then a scientist
third you know I pride myself on trying
to be evidence-based and read research
but I don't always agree with all the
researchers like that they're more like
by-the-book like I feel like to be
evidence-based it means consider
everything you don't just assume there's
well wheat that's not evidence there's
it's not a published study on it it's
like a study finally came out showing
squats built the glutes before that
there were like no studies so can we be
like whoa we there's no evidence of
squats build the glutes there hasn't
been a published paper on it it's like
obviously they build will get power
lifters and Olympic weightlifters so I
can have a Sal OTT of my knowledge on I
feel like a third of your knowledge is
what you learned is you're on your own
in the gym training you on your own a
third is what you learned training other
people and then a third is what you
learn like reading and listening to
podcasts and talking to other coaches
and you have to you know you have to do
all of them in order to maximize your
understanding but before we ask you for
your philosophies on your rule of thirds
you know growing up as a kid I was so
insecure I had nobody I remember being
in high school and I had a crush on
these three girls they're like three the
more popular girls and they're like hey
let's go watch football practice I love
looking at the guys in the bud seeing
their football outfits and I'm like
great I'm gonna be
oh I'm done and then I play golf with my
sister's boyfriend and he's like oh I
still remember oh I'm a 9 pole I'm
bending over to swing and he's like you
know Brett you have no but it's like
you're missing not that like
protuberance is supposed to say I'm like
man wise most uncomfortable
would you be like in the locker room and
be like hey buddy you have no penis at
all
brutal honesty in it just sang it just
so a matter of fact not even worrying
that it's gonna be a little bit
offensive I remember being like at that
time you know being 16 years old and
like lanky I had been doing lifting
weights but I did you know my routine
was like I had a little barbell set and
I did military press I did push-ups I
did curls I did cow braces I did
crunches but I didn't do anything from
my back or legs I got it I couldn't do
chin-ups
I couldn't dude Gibbs and I could and I
tried squatting and I'm like this just
doesn't feel right I just still ride I
wish I knew that then what I know now
about progressions and things like that
but I remember thinking okay like I wish
there were like oh I'm getting lines
under my pecs from doing push-ups I
wonder if I could start building my
glutes but I don't feel a lot of these X
like I remember doing deadlifts and just
I'm like if I had a video it would been
like a YouTube classic like the round
back I just I would feel them all in my
back and just do complete round back to
us I mean this is we're talking like
1992 here we didn't have the internet
back then and we you know you just
learned by doing and watching other
people and trying to read muscle mags so
I started studying the glutes and I
remember being like why don't
bodybuilders have they never mentioned
glutes it's like seriously you they
every other body part gets isolated you
trap a trainer traps your delts all
three heads your biceps your triceps
your packs your last serie rector's your
abs your obliques
your hamstrings your calves the only
missing thing there is the glutes and
there's like no we don't have wrapped it
buddy Bo's have a leg day you had like
your chest day your back day your
shoulder day your arm day your leg day
but use all these plagues or quads and
hamstrings so I would read what they
would do for I'd be like what you know I
go to like I remember being 16 going to
the store and checking out the muscle
mags and being like what is Ronnie
Coleman do for his glutes and for his
leis cuz he has big glutes and then I
remember being 19 and so we're talking
23 years ago my cousin bought me a book
it was something like the complete guide
to button leg 2 though I still have it
but I was like this is awesome
why'd you get it from me Kinkos because
I've never met someone so obsessed with
the glutes and that was 24 years ago and
I'm still just as passionate to this day
something interesting about the way your
name pops up a lot in in what I've been
doing I mean I've been in the industry
for 17 years which by the sounds of it's
nowhere near as long as you but you know
I've mainly my my clientele is based on
performance and when people want to get
good at a certain movement we practice
that movement extensively in my world
that's usually based around powerlifting
squats bench press deadlift and I'm also
an educator and the way that I educate
my audience is by teaching them what I
do best I don't want to teach them stuff
that I don't do it just doesn't make
sense but I really get the question of
okay well what what about us who wants
to have an aesthetics goal and and you
know a body part in particular with the
females that is extremely important and
popular as you completely know which is
why you've basically business around
that is is glute development and the
reason why I promote the work that I do
is because that's the work that I do
like I know that squats develop the
glutes and I see a lot of amazing
squatters with great glute development
so that's the way that I teach it and
people see it as oh you must be against
Brett Contreras because he's got a
differing opinion I think I don't know
if he's got a differing opinion I'm
gonna find that out now but I don't
think that it's a different opinion I
just think he's got different audience
and different goals with what he wants
to achieve with his exercises
just recently I did a seminar
it was a female only seminar and a study
just came out discussing the benefits of
squats versus hip thrusters saying that
the squat was superior for developing
for increasing hypertrophy than the hip
thrusts are contrary to previous belief
and I thought okay well that's pretty
cool because if someone came to me and I
know that I work very closely with with
flesh Rijn and Denny they've got the
female only business and we actually
incorporate a variety of different
exercises not exclusive to squads and
and not exclusive to glute bridges
either but we include both but it was
definitely something that I wanted to
know the answer and someone put their
hand up and said it was literally the
day that it came out and they said Bret
Contreras actually disputed the study
and I thought ah I didn't have a chance
to hear what he had to say but now that
I've got you face-to-face instead of
reading about it I love to hear opinion
what are your thoughts I'm sure you've
read the study what are your thoughts on
the study okay so this this is a gonna
be crazy for you guys to hear because
and this it was really sad about this is
that like you know when you read a study
like you just assume it's legit like
that's what we all do we're like this is
like was really performed and so here's
an interesting thing never in my life
have I ever suspected that a study was
fake until this bar below
Mateos bar below is the author that
study a couple higher he published a
volume paper and it showed that five
doing five to ten sets a week was
superior than doing 15 to 20 sets a week
for like different muscles in the body
but like so bodybuilders are all doing
it wrong like but I looked at this study
I you know I I discussed this study with
my staff might like my trainers and
everything I showed him and also now I'm
looking at the data and I'm going holy
crap like this isn't how like I've
published I've been I published 51 50 or
51 studies now data doesn't look like
this it's never this neat so I called up
my friend James and I'm like James this
is fake this study's fake this was two
years ago I go this study is fake and
he's like I'm like look at it nothing's
over this
I called a couple of my friends and
they're like well you know I go how can
we prove that is there a way to show it
it's vacant no I don't know and then
then of course you know this there's so
much to talk about but was this study
was published and I look at the authors
in its bar below and this follow genteel
who's his is professor now Polly genteel
has bashed hip thrusts over and over and
when this was published he comes out on
Instagram and he's like I am the
greatest researcher of all time like
it's bizarre so I start looking at the
study and I'm like this this is fake
there's no way that okay so it looked at
I have I wrote a response in my friend
Alan arrogance research review I was
gonna publish it on my blog but some
stuff happened and I was told
hold off okay so I never posted on my
blog I intend to I want to but I pointed
out everything from like a my experience
as a trainer I'm not this statistical
whiz it's funny I taught math high
school math for six years I'm really
good at algebra and geometry and
trigonometry but I'm not good at stats I
hate stats my I have colleagues that are
really good at staff that's I'm not that
good at stats so I can't pick this thing
apart from a statistical perspective but
just from like knowing about training
people I mean I found so much stuff and
then I started going through other other
studies that they had and Sebastian
you'll appreciate this because they took
so they took like female Brazilian
female lifters and they these lifters
had like first of all they were like
stronger like they gained semi a game
like 75 pounds on their squad and was it
was it 12 weeks just squatting one day a
week and he's were they were already
squatting like 205 205 pounds and then
they went to 280 pounds in 12 weeks of
squatting one day week and I mean I've
never had a client gain set like a like
someone who could already squat like 205
go to 280 I've never had someone gaining
that much straight so quickly if they
were already proficient and
if you're there squat was already like
stronger than their hip thrust and I'm
going if you were like if you were like
similar and strength with your squads
and hips like you can everyone is way
stronger at their hip thrust in their
squat now maybe like some people you
work with Sebastien on it like that but
you work with the biggest freaks I train
like the normal people like could Thor
hip thrust a thousand pounds maybe if he
worked his way up to it I don't think he
cares about my funny that I haven't
tested yet on any of my high level
athletes so I can't even give you an
answer I know that a big Z loves his hip
thrust those those guys have like giant
legs most women they are way stronger
with hip thrust like you might say
typical woman you know it's a strong
lifter as proficient experienced in all
three lists they might be able to squat
200 pounds you know deadlift no to 250
275 and hit thrust like 450 or 500 like
that's just the way it is so I already
was like look at all this stuff and I'm
like madness is bizarre then I look at
another study and it was like from the
same weird protocol these men couldn't
these men had a 10 rep max benchpress of
duchesses so long ago anyway in 12 weeks
of benching one day a week with just two
sets they gained a third of their body
mass on the bench press in so it was
like okay so if I was to do that the
most I've ever been press is 355 pounds
right so my 10 rep max the most my 10
rep max is is 275 so it would be like me
just benching two sets a week for 12
weeks and then all of a sudden I can
bench a third of my body weight which is
80 pounds 80 some pounds which would be
like me benching 355 pounds for 10 reps
think about benching your one rep max
for 10/10 now that will never happen in
12 weeks never happen at Psilakis never
happen over you know that so I would
never risk my professional reputation
and say this studies fake if I know from
a from a statistical standpoint it just
doesn't add up there's a I believe that
this study is fake it
other studies are fake what I want to
know is why why would they do this but
uh yeah if I if I was wrong about that
yeah every researcher was Lu would lose
respect for me I'd be the talk of the
town but I have reason to believe that
it's a fake study so I believe if we if
we did the actual study I think hip
thrusts would would win I think it's
funny I want to show you this protocol
to Sebastian it's like this weird I'm
gonna pull this up it's this weird
protocol and it's funny because uh I
feel I had my niece do the protocol so
so you are you going to try and test it
based on this beyond I'm not gonna Reese
I'm not a study bouquet oh it's 24 weeks
okay so week one five nine they did okay
week one five nine thirteen seventy in
21 they did 12 to 15 reps with 30 to 60
seconds rest that doesn't build strength
like you know 12 to 15 reps with 30 to
60 seconds reps so I had my niece do
that she can squat 200 pounds and I had
her and it's full squats and it's a
two-second down to second up-tempo so
you got you can't lift as much when
you're actually controlling the tempo
you know and so I had her do the actual
protocol with that much rest and I and I
have to change the plates and I've got
to be so another reason you know it's
fake is that they said there's like one
trainer for every five lifters but you
can't you have to have one-on-one here
because I gotta be right there to change
the plates because they fail it has to
be to failure they talk about where
failure doesn't mean like oh I can't do
another rope it means you actually fail
so they have to go down and then come up
and they can't get it they go to the
rats and you have to curl the thing and
put it back in the rack and then and
then adjust the plates so if they're
doing so she started out with Wyatt
she's my niece started out with yeah set
one was a hundred fifteen pounds and she
got it for 14 reps then you know 30 to
60 seconds did 95 pounds for 11 rep
centers and set dinner
says she did 65 pounds for 12 reps her
fourth set she just did the bar for 15
reps the fifth set was the bar for 10
reps in the sixth set the bar for eight
reps and she she couldn't sleep on her
stomach like a 5-2 her quads were so
incredibly sore so then it's just this
weird like no like like Sebastian you'd
never lose this protocol to build
strained it's like 12 reps with 30 to 60
seconds rest next week you do 4 to 6
reps with 3 to 4 minutes rest then the
next week you do 10 to 12 reps with 1 to
2 minutes and then the next week you do
6 to 8 reps with 2 to 3 minutes like who
done who even does this protocol so you
know that doing that protocol one day a
week would not build out much strength
you need a squad room twice a week but
anyway this study is not to be taken
seriously and we do need a study looking
at hypertrophy oh we are right now is
EMG and I believe this paper will be
retracted in time we we only have an EMG
study right now showing more EMG here's
the thing people say though cuz all the
people who wrote up the study who wrote
up reviews about the study they were
like well this squat clearly has more
range of motion and it and it puts more
tension on the muscles I don't believe
it puts more tension on the muscles
because I've I study the glutes and the
glutes activate more a 10 range compared
to the stretch not other not every
muscle is like that only like the glutes
and directors are like that other
muscles like you get the greatest
tension more in mid range with glutes or
mid range or like a length in position
but what if glutes it's like the
shortest possible now remodeling
biomechanist
worked with have said you get the
greatest tension in foods just with a
very slight stretch so when they're
stretched deep real down deep you don't
get the greatest amount of active
tension so I think a hip thrust would be
producing more tension and ask for range
of motion yes the barbell squat moves
the you get more barbell displacement
compared to the rest but here's the deal
as far as active tension on the glutes
so with us
say you started a very acute angle
you're deep down in hip flexion you know
it's like with the squat are we
recording video here - yes okay so with
the squat maybe you go here but here's
the deal with a hip thrust maybe you
start here you come up but then you keep
going and then you post your brother
tilt or you just keep going to hip
hyperextension well here's the thing
people have different levels of hip
hyperextension mobility in the
literature some people have 45 degrees
the average is like if you have 45
degrees of hip eiper extension mobility
meaning you can go way past neutral you
don't use any of that in a squat you're
using a lot of that range in a hip to us
it just depends we need to look at these
things but here's what any reasonable
person would conclude why think about
[__] I like comparing squats first hip
thrusts I did that my PhD it's just
intriguing but every program I've ever
written has both of them for good
development why wouldn't you want one
exercise it works you in the length in
position one exercise that works the
short position I believe they're
complementary and tell some people don't
squat that much they just have the worst
you know anthropometry z' for it maybe
they should do
haibach squats or something instead of
you know squatting three days a week and
some people shouldn't deadlift is often
if they're good if they're have pure
physique goals you can I can usually
find a good variation on some people I
mean some people don't like barbell hip
thrust my point is we should learn all
the exercises I mean figure out what
variations suit the person best for
their goals or Anatomy I totally agree
and I appreciate your response to that
for my sport I'm training people for
performance and people that want to get
good at a squat a large percentage of my
work is actually skill acquisition and
you know technique work on on the
specific movement but working with the
females working with Felicia and Denny
there
business base body babes it's definitely
something that we've incorporated
actually both the way that I consider it
is like this deltoid raise the lateral
raise for a deltoid is an excellent
builder but does it mean that you
exclude a shoulder press no it doesn't
why not have both they absolutely
complement each other and we could use
the same examples for all of the muscles
so I think that some the problem is that
misinterpretation of all of our audience
will look at someone like you and say
you're a hip thrust to see you hate
squats and they look at someone like me
and they say you're a squatter so you
hate the hip thrust so I'd like to clear
that you know it's not how it goes it's
not how it goes but I appreciate your
perspective on that thank you Bret if
you were gonna try to build someone's
glutes maximally with squats I don't
know how would you program for them
would you say I'm having squat two days
a week would you haven't squat three
days a week it's like would you have
them do just you P approach probably
interesting thing is you know it sounds
like a cop-out but the answer is always
it depends and it's different levels of
strength might need so let's just talk
about the the strongest person on the
planet right now half Thor I can't have
him doing multiple times per week
because he's too strong and he needs a
little bit more recovery but I've had
great results with some of my my
athletes like Denny here
her first squat program was a squat
everyday program that we we based off a
fellow named John burrows he was the
coach of Pat Mendes which was an amazing
American weightlifter heals the
strongest teenager in America and he
wrote out this what everyday program and
we tried it on people that weren't
lifting as much and it worked really
really well we got Dinny from top
something like an 80 kilograms squat to
140 so what's that a plate a blue plate
and a green which is a tequila tell me I
don't know how many pounds that is to
three hundred and three hundred and
eight pounds as a fifty-two boat girl
like it was a really great result but if
I've got someone really big and strong
that's you know squatting over over 700
pounds to do that every day I don't I'm
quite sure not only we would not see the
same result but we'd even see a whole
bunch of injuries and you know this is
where it's a case-by-case basis and you
know you mentioned before the study that
he conducted three years before that
saying that five sets is superior to
it's like well I've got my strongest
athletes that periodized their their
reps and sets and tempos and intensities
over a you know however long the block
is in preparation for a competition and
they may start with about 15 to 20 sets
per body part and then as the weights
get heavier like Thor towards the end he
was doing three total sets one of them
was heavy and two of them were really
light per week for a deadlift and that's
because he's lifting weights that no
other human has ever done so so it's a
funny one like that's the thing that I
don't like about the science when I hear
people say oh you know five read five
sets is better than ten it's like well
well you know when and then you know I
want some context behind that good I so
agree with you and that's why I get like
I mentioned earlier I'm a coach before
I'm a I'm a coach before I'm a son of a
scientist [__] absolutes and every
time I hear something I'm like well that
would work from this client but not for
this client if I tried that with this
client they it would put him backwards
it's funny met John Burroughs I wouldn't
visit him in 2009 and I wrote her
article max out on squats every day I
wrote that article for tea nation back
in the day but you're absolutely and and
so with with but with with hip thrust
interestingly so hip thrust what I found
in my PhD research was when people do
squats okay you you have more barbell
discipline but on the way down you use
only 10 percent less force than you do
on the way up meaning you've got to
control that weight on the way down you
can't dive on the spot now you can tell
people like lower the hip thrust slowly
under control but they just kind of let
it go it's kind of like where the
deadlift when you kind of let it go you
might grab B do it for you so with the
hip thrust they were only using one
third of the force on the way down then
on the way up which means that the hip
thrust was a shorter overall range of
motion mostly concentric movement the
squat is a longer range of motion
eccentric and concentric movement the
squat stretches the glutes to a greater
degree it's gonna cause more muscle
damage the hip thrust is not gonna cause
as much muscle damage so and
systemically it's not as hard either as
a squad just sometimes you can
especially the deadlift is like that you
feel like you got hit by a train
train the next day was the hypno where
these girls could hit bus you know for
four or five days a week so it's hard to
kind of build a think of a study
protocol that compared it's like you
know if you do it two days a week you're
like as a practitioner I'm like well why
would you only hip to us two days a week
you could get these girls four days a
week so it's hard to compare the two but
in every reasonable person in my opinion
when you would use both in their program
if growth was the goal something we
spoke about last year was if you want
maximal glute development should you do
heavy moderate or light loads can we
talk about this so interesting I've got
like four studies up on my tabs right
now that I'm planning on reading but I
really interested on like in the
individual nature of muscle damage and
recovery and there's a lot of studies on
this and it's you know what got me
thinking about this was when Hattie
boydle came and visited me I'm like whee
this was it when I lived in Phoenix she
we trained glutes four straight days in
a row and she did enough volume to kill
a horse and you know I'm like how is
this she can just she can handle so much
you know and if I did that with some of
my other clients they would you know
they would be sick they would yeah we
spoke about the recovery Jane we said I
had the recovery gene a lot of genes
that are and there's there's even
they've done like Studies on the
genetics of rhabdomyolysis and things
like that some people are just way more
free decision for muscle damage than
others and so like I feel like me I
can't do as much volume as other people
because I get eita I'm sore the next day
other people are like they never get
sore and there's another study that just
recently got published it was
interesting they had one group do like
more like less sets but so what schools
each subject was their own control
because say I was one of subjects my
left leg I'm gonna do three sets of leg
extensions to failure what am i I'm
gonna do six sets of leg extensions but
a few reps shy of failure
some people saw a better results
more high effort but less volume other
people saw better results and they'd
have one leg that clearly saw more
results than the other leg which leads
me to think that our programs need to be
individualized but how about we know
you're just guessing but I think some
people are kind of more volume people
they don't they don't kind of go take
every set to failure but they thrive by
more volume other people you know might
thrive more through pushing the sets to
failure but do it a little bit less we
need to learn more about that over time
but it's in general I like training the
glue it's three days a week in general
how could you do it two days a week
absolutely could you do it five days a
week
yes let's think about muscle damage they
get biggest stretch in the most
eccentric activity with things like
squats and lunges you know so can you do
heavy us like five sets of 10 squats
followed by three sets of 10 like 3 sets
of 20 walking barbell lunges every day
helm no can you do hip thrusts can you
do abduction like band work and like
cable out like think about an abduction
movement you're standing when you do
abduction you never even go into a
stretch like you're here and you go like
this this doesn't even go into a stretch
right here you're just in neutral and
you move to a short position so that mat
goes into my rule of thirds which we can
talk about later but could you do five
days a week yeah I've had clients like
like well Natalia Melo back in the day
she won a second miss bikini Olympia
she's like Brett and Brazil she's
Brazilian just like in Brazil Brett Lee
we weren't gluts every day we have like
sections of the gym that are just for
glute training you know and so but they
do a lot of ankle weight stuff a lot of
a lot of variety well you watch her
train and she's not going to failure
she's really doing higher reps really
squeezing a lot of mind muscle
connection so I think if I had to just
create a program for the masses I would
do three days a week I would do you know
around 12 sets
12 cents a day this kind of guys should
I go through my rule of thirds
this is your um philosophy for
development this is because if you talk
to the researchers and all the
literature but I want to add this
literature hasn't been conducted on
gluts we're taking the literature with
like quads and pecs and other muscle
groups and then applying it to the
glutes but there's been done looking at
gluten really looking at glutes except
the bar below studies which I don't
trust at all but in general the
consensus is due around 10 to 20 sets a
week is optimal for muscle development
for like 12 to 24 sets that's optimal so
if you wanted to grow your biceps you do
12 to 24 sets a week you don't do more
than that and look at every female with
the best glute development trained half
of them you know the bikini Olympians a
top 10 they do more than 12 to 24 sets a
week of glutes they all do
so it was a way of kind of trying to say
well why why are they able to do way
more sets for glutes and first of all
the glutes are a unique muscle that the
biggest muscle but they do a lot of
actions and you hip extension hip
abduction hip external rotation post
your pelvic tilt which is kind of hip
hyper extensions kind the same thing and
there's exercise that work you a lot in
a stretch position ones that work you in
a shortened position like so with hip
extension exercise there's vertical hip
extension exercise squats lunges
deadlifts good mornings there's
horizontal ones these are your hip
thrusts your back extensions your cable
pull through is your reverse Hyper's
your 45-degree hyper is your kickbacks
they work you more in the extended like
in range position then you've got your
abduction movements which you can do
flexed or front don't like frontal plane
or transverse plane flexed or straight
up and these those you know the those so
transverse or frontal plane hip
abduction
those don't beat you up that much so if
you were to do 12 sets a day three times
a week so you do 36 total sets a week or
even if you did 4 to 16 sets four times
a week you'd be doing 48 36 to 48 sets
you
get away with it if you follow the rule
of thirds meaning so there's three parts
to the rule of thirds think of three
little circles with each with like a
broken into thirds so the first vector
training vector like a 30-year exercise
should be vertical these are your squats
lunges etc another third should be
horizontal in nature these are your hip
thrusts glute bridges you know back
extensions kickbacks and the remaining
third should be lateral or rotary these
are your abduction movements and those
work the upper glutes better the glute
medius and maybe the upper subdivision
the glute Max and the glute medius is a
big muscle that's that you know the
glute max kind of comes like this and
the glute medius is right there they
kind of help build that shelf now the
second component to the rule of thirds
is around a 30 or sets should be heavy
you know for low reps a third should be
moderate or medium reps and a third
should be light for high reps whenever
we do studies comparing like heavy
weight less likely for muscle growth the
heavy group always gains more strength
but the groups gain the same amount of
muscle hypertrophy you know it's like
you can gain muscle through a variety of
repres but here's the deal the heavy
group after ten weeks they're all always
like tell the researchers like fill
accommodate if I go one more week I'm
gonna injure myself my joints are
killing me a high rep group sometimes
you get dropouts because they they don't
want to puke like they're like I feel
like I'm gonna throw up if you do a set
of 32 actual failure you feel like
puking that's why I like a lot like a
variety of rep ranges you don't do all
on one range and then the last component
the rule thirds is this effort like
around a 30 or set should be to failure
but not all of them if you did every set
to actual failure you'd be beat up too
much another third should be around you
know a couple reps shy of failure and
then the other third should be nowhere
close to failure and you'd say like
think about doing band work there was a
central governor Theory back in the day
that this researcher postulated about
running you're running you're running a
marathon or something and you're like oh
my god I can't run another another I
have to stop I
burning so bad I can't do it it's your
brain it's not your muscles failing it's
your brain it's just too much for the
brain but if someone said to you like
holy [__] there's a tiger behind you
right that's the same kind of similar
with lateral band walks and things like
that like like when you do use a band
and do stuff like that it burns like
crazy but if sneef you someone out of
gun your head you could probably do ten
more so you don't really take those to
failure so if you do it like that you
can probably do a lot more volume and
it's probably I always think of like
other muscle groups that we don't you
people don't care it like women cares so
much about glutes that I've gone into
all this thought and if you thought
about deltoids you could probably think
the same way but even with like pecs
you're like you apply the same logic to
the pecs well if you did a third of the
exercise that work you in a stretch and
then a third that work you like cable
crossovers just work you in a squeeze
position and then we figured out how to
do like internal rotation movements or
something we don't do that because these
movements tend to be good but the girls
want every last bit every they can
squeeze out every last bit of
hypertrophy they want they want to
isolate they want to do every bit of
movement but it's interesting to think
about if that applies to other muscles
as well but yeah that's my theory onto a
few things that you just picked up which
I love hearing your your thoughts on
there's so many ways of achieving great
results obviously you know I've got a
great way and then you hear someone that
gets really strong or gets a very
similar result to what I'm doing and
they do it a completely different method
something that I like to do is period
eyes intensities as I period eyes volume
as well and you know you're talking
about doing all different intensities
and all different rep ranges and sets
within the same training week am i right
by saying you kind of do it all is that
like an all year-round thing that you'd
follow the rule of threes where you're
doing a heavy medium light in a training
week and you can continue that through
the entire year okay I've got a very
interesting way of irid izing I've never
heard I'm really glad to talk oh I don't
think I've ever talked about this on a
podcast so I I want to like publish this
because it's funny my booty by Brad
I do this for my booty by Brett right so
I just started out thinking the way this
came to be I start out thinking okay say
I wanna like I mean all right chin-ups
they're so hard to go up on you know but
if I ever want to really set a chin up
PR I can especially if you lose weight
while you're at it but if I just say I'm
doing chin-ups three times a week first
in the workout and I do that for like
you know six weeks I'm gonna set a chin
up PR the reason why I don't set many
chin up yours is it's usually the third
exercise I do I'll do it once or twice a
week they they're not my number one
priority
I started getting as I get older it's
getting harder and harder to set PR is
in a squat they deadlift like the most
ever deadlift it is 6:20 I want to debit
6:35 that's like you know six plates and
a twenty five on each side that's like
the milestones I think about so if I
want to do that I've got to prioritize
my daily which means probably doing it
first but every lift has its own rules
and that's what fascinates me it's like
if you wanted to prioritize your squat
well you could probably squat hard three
times a week right if you wanted to
really build your deadlift for most
people I like one really heavy dead like
one really hard deadlift a week and then
one other day where you do like stiff
legs or something else but not I don't
have people do heavy Dead's two or three
times a week it's too much but instead
my assistance lifts tend to be a lot
more like weighted 45-degree Hyper's nor
things that work the hamstrings more or
something like that but then we could go
on to what's their weak link because a
lot of people it's there quite a lot of
women especially their quads inhibiting
their gather because they turn into
stiff leg but I digress here's what I do
for booty by Brett and I actually think
it works really really well and my whole
concept the other thing that made me
think about this I started reading the
literature on strength maintenance and I
was like holy crap these people can do
like two sets a week and maintain their
strength on a lift you don't so I
started experimenting with some of my
clients and I'd have them like I do like
a
just have him do one set of bench press
or one set of squats or one set of devis
a week they do other things but I just
wanted to see the next month I'd have a
max out they retain their strength Wow
as long as you're doing other things
it's kind of easy to maintain so the way
I thought about I love powerlifting love
it I love the squat the bench press in
the devil here's the deal though I also
love the hip thrust the chin up the
military press so those I just named six
lists so this is kind of funny because
I'm talking about balls but imagine you
got six balls okay I've got six balls
and I'm trying to juggle them but every
time I gain strength the ball grows so
your goal is got six big huge balls
right but your juggling thank you
serious you know drop a ball like you're
gonna like you can't keep doing it they
get bigger oh my god they fall out so
it's a better strategy say I'm gonna
focus on two balls I'm gonna put four
balls right here on this table
and these are maintenance I think these
two balls focus on them I mean just in
powerlifting how much easier would it be
if you just had this squat in a bench
the deadlift interferes with a squat so
it's like sometimes I'm like god I want
to build my squat but then i debit my
little backstory it makes my you know
it's even just with three lists it's
hard so I'll typically pick one lower
body lift and one upper body lift and
that's what we focus on I am always
doing all six of those lifts I mentioned
every program has every week you're
gonna do some squats some together some
hip thrusts and bench press a military
press some chin-ups some seem to look
legwork you know some rows but you know
the ingredients shuffle so weak so
here's how I do it
month one is a well-rounded month okay
so Monday you're or day one say it's
Monday Wednesday Friday day one two
three one day you squat Wednesday you
hit thrust
Friday you deadlift you also might do
stiff legs on your squat day you might
do on your death day you might do like
reverse lunges or something you're still
gonna do more lifts but that's what you
do first
that's a well-rounded month
when you're trying to and then maybe
your upper body lists are like
benchpress on Monday tuneups on
Wednesday military press on Friday okay
you're not focusing on any lift that's
month one month two now you're focusing
on the squat and the military press okay
so we're gonna squat first right and
month then and then squat military burst
and everything else is more maintenance
when the next month is and I do this
sequentially because after the squat
month your knees we could use a rest so
the next month is hip thrust its hip
thrust in chin-ups so we were called a
hypnotist in the chin up then you're
feeling good again the next month it's
deadlifts and in benchpress you still
swap but you dead at first um like and
then I'll do like say say Monday is
deadlifts like whatever you whether you
do convention or sumo or semi sand
whatever trap bar if you want but you're
gonna pick it to a heavy deadlift and
then maybe Wednesday is under forty
five-degree hyper and like a single leg
movement and then like try it might be
stiff leg deadlift and you know maybe
squats or something but that you're
doing them first in the first in the
workout so it sees the best results and
then after delos your low back is pretty
beat up so the next month it's a single
leg and dumbbell focus you I still
sprinkle in some barbell and bilateral
lists but it's a lot of focus on single
leg and dumbbells just to give your body
a little bit of a break and then the
cycle repeats and I really think it
works well especially for people who are
my people don't get hurt much it's
really good for injury prevention cuz
you're not focusing on the big three
every single month and that's one thing
I treated a powerlifting gym in Tempe
Arizona for a couple years these guys
were so strong you know guys in at 198
class Boeing 737 fifty stuff like that
but I notice they get they get too
strong for their bodies you know I
remember they're competing at Dan greens
pilot event of course there the week
before
one's like I'm just worried I'm gonna
tear my Peck off the bone and the others
like that's how I feel about my hamster
I'm worrying on my terror complete off
the book Jesus you really pushing the
envelope here with power lifting so I
like I like all six of the lifts I
mentioned I think that's a good way to
so you're always doing all the lifts but
some you're only focusing on really
gaining strength so then it's like the
goal is to elevate these two limits this
month then put those on maintenance and
so over the course of a whole year
you're building up on all of them do you
gain its strength as fast on any one
lifts no but it leads to longer
sustained progress over a long run it's
an interesting way to paradise which
I've never really seen anyone do it that
way we study privation it just talks
about volume and intensity it doesn't
talk about rotating the list that you
focus on yeah I mean as you're talking
everything resonates with me with what
you're discussing and the best example
of that is is what just happened it's
the most recent event and that is half
thought doing a 500 one kilogram
deadlift previous to this he was
prioritizing six different events for
like the Arnold's of the world Strongest
Man there might be 10 different events
and how do you focus on training 10
things at one time and and how do you
get a 500 1 kilogram deadlift while this
is happening as well for me there was no
surprise that he was able to get a 500 1
kilogram deadlift when he had no other
exercises that he needed to focus on so
so I absolutely and wholeheartedly
agreed you know the more things you try
and add to the equation the bigger all
of your balls get and the harder it is
to juggle all of them so so I love those
points with it so the bottom line is a
lot of that it's something that I always
hear so much about with the studies and
people are talking about this is the way
to you've got to do it you've got to you
know 5 to 10 sets is better and it's
like ok bit better than what you know
then it's the the minimum effective dose
versus maximum recoverable volume and
you know and you should you should be
you know working as hard as possible and
it's like well if you like how you said
there was the study that did the heavy
weights and after 10 weeks that was sick
and tired of lifting heavy it's like
well that's because they're trying to
lift heavy all year round and and and I
think that that's a really good
for all of our audiences you can't do
everything at once you can't beat your
body up all year round something's got
to give recovery as equally as as
important as working hard and there is a
time and place for all of us so I really
love those messages there Bret can we
just go back to talking about the gluts
before we go on to some business talk so
we for our bass bloody babes so we
specialized in training women as well
and we're recently not recently maybe
the last couple of years introduced
glute activation routines for our girls
prior to all of their sessions we just
want to know your opinion what's the
current research in terms of glute
activation being effective okay so there
is probably like that I've got a I've
got them all categorized it was about
six studies looking at it it's you know
equivocal like some studies showing it
is not but and there's one study using
EMG it's like this transcranial magnetic
stimulation TMS TMS yeah they put
something like some like halo thing on
your head and measure the areas of like
brain activation look like cortical
regions and they should it's funny they
had people put a band around their knees
they got on all fours and did like a
like a hip extension hip abduction hip X
like they they basically got on all
fours with a band and imagine heaven if
you imagine being a participant is study
they had to do this for 20 minutes a day
three times a week so they were like it
was like 20 minutes three times a day
for those who have audio only
that's why it's called a fire hydrant
that kind of fire hydrant like a dog
pees on a fire hydrant that's the extras
but well being on you know kind of
trying to do wanted isometric because
they believe that you focus harder on
isometrics so they wanted to see so it
was a one week long study and they
showed that just in one week of doing
these glute activation you had increased
like activation in the brain and also
decreased inhibitory signals or
something so that to me was the best
piece of evidence in favor of glute
activation now here's the problem half
of our it's like you got like it's a
funny world we live in it's like
probably two-thirds of the world needs
to exercise more like their sedentary
you know we've got all these overweight
and unhealthy people out there they need
exercise and then there's a portion that
we work with or like half of the people
we work with her actually psychos like
their exercise addicts and they do too
much so these are the people that like
before they squat they're doing sixty
two sets of glute activation to failure
and it's like that's not the point
you don't eat yourself you're not gonna
have a Thor be doing like BAM lateral
band walks to failure you want you know
so I don't do as much glute activation
as other people do that 20 minutes is I
think a glute activation takes us a
maximum of about a minute to say 20
minutes per day I use that too so so
anyway I think that we're hitting all
we're covering all the different
movements from a strength perspective so
but here's the deal when I worked out of
the power lifting gym for a couple years
these guys would do it just you know
they'd be like but if I do some banned
hip thrusts kind of like light for 20
reps my hips don't hurt when I squat or
they'll be doing their lateral band
walks and a lot of them would take 30
minutes to warm up these are guys are
upper low upper level people what are
you gonna do criticize their warm-up
routine it takes a while they're strong
you get it takes you a while your
routine to get into the next my girls
can seriously walk right in and like
start lifting heavy like I don't know I
would I would crumble if I did like I
got a warm up gradually but I think most
of my women
I have them do like a couple sets of
light goblet squats a couple sets of
reverse lunges and maybe they do some
lateral fan but it's a few minutes and
they're already roll yeah it's very
minimal as well just a minute or two max
is it female only where you are coming
for himself or did he come because it's
a gym full of chicks you question that
one as well he's friends with all of me
like knows all of them he's really cool
but the problem is men I mean if I had
like 10 strong dudes in here you'd need
for some of these movements you need 500
600 pounds you'd meet so many 45 pound
plates if I had a bunch of dudes in here
also they sweat so bad oh my gosh oh
that's why we created our female only
spice cuz my chick wants to work out
with big hairy men like you guys but
what is your who is your main clientele
females are they all bikini models are
they general population like obviously
it's funny because when I moved to San
Diego I didn't know what to expect but I
just started talking my first two
clients with his Brianna and Mass and
they were competitors but these big huge
butts and then they start tagging me and
then every bikini competitor in the city
wanted to train with me saw something
like 50 bikini competitors and then I'm
getting inquiries from all over the
world that's what really blew up in
popularity I just started working with
so many bikini compares and then I
started missing so it's like like I have
this client Jade and she's so she's got
this amazing amazing butt and she gets
so strong she's very strong and you know
she's not get to where she's dead
lifting like 220 she's like weighs like
a hundred you know say she weighs 125
over 100 something like that and she
starts deadlifting you know 225 for
Senate 210 and all of a sudden her coach
freaks out she's like your butt is
getting way too big this is not you know
you're going to be penalized for it
really ones more than I do about the
because she goes to all the events and
maybe the judging criteria I defer to
you know I defer to her coach but I'm
like [__] I can't even do my thing like
like to me there's no such thing as too
big of groups like you've had training
the fitness models as well baths but
different many parts become using
different exercises but I wouldn't have
expected it that way with the glutes but
but for me when I get girls squatting
and deleting heavy they're definitely
building things that are not as
desirable such as thick erector spinae
and bigger quads and it's a real pain in
the butt for me because exactly what you
said I can't do what I do man these
directors get too big you know and it
sucks she could be so strong at the
doublet if she could train it you know
I'm always Patti why don't you just do
like three singles with deadlifts like
three sumo demo three singles are like
but you know she can get to like the
directors can get to big so I do think
that uh so I mean what I did I started
missing training just like people to
train for strength so now I've got some
girls that are really well-rounded and
it's really cool and I they're like I've
got a my client Ashley she she just
pulled 385 and she way is one like 150
and so she's about to pull 405 soon for
plates you know it's I love testing my
theories like looking it she'll pull
sumo but her hips shoot up and she
almost stiff legs are soo much she was
around she keeps that arch but her hips
shoot up so I have her doing every other
week I have her doing super upright sumo
deadlifts where she's super super
upright she has to go down to see her
first week doing those they felt so
weird for and she was so weak in her
quads she's doing sets of that's a three
with 275 you know three by three with
275 well now she's up to doing three by
three with 315 but it's building her and
when I have her max out I just go don't
worry about form let your hips shoot up
if you need to
we just want
get that weight and building and I bet
you she'll get four plates soon it's
kind of fun for me to Train it's more
fun training people for strength when
you know what I do
yes Teddy came for me it's it's too much
of a pain in the body he's not emotional
and he's not very something right
because you are an absolute pioneer in
that space so it's awesome to see just
in terms of the glute lab so that's your
gym where you are at right now is it so
what would someone walking into the gym
expect from training there is it at
eight classes is it a systemized
approach is it customized programming
okay what I'm after is the knowledge so
I don't care about making money from my
gym I don't even charge anyone here
really this one we dream here so yeah I
don't charge anyone I just I I want them
to I want the knowledge I want to work
with tons of people and I want work with
high level people and the athletes don't
always have a lot of money and stuff so
but I it that way I don't have to feel
guilty to if I'm not you know but you
start out just start out just - Jim - in
California things take longer than other
states like that have I know they we
didn't get my I didn't get my business
permit for like an extra month or two
after I thought I would so I start
training them for free and then I got my
license here and I'm like I don't want
any of them to stop training with me I I
know it's expensive out here in San
Diego so it's like I just won't charge
him so then um as time went on I said
this is nice to have this studio here
because when I do all my you know my
Instagram stuff my videos my testing I
create products I test him I have the
it's just a testing grounds so people
always like people go
like they think that I don't you know
they'll be like bread I know you've
probably heard and during the quarantine
here you're probably like they think cuz
I can't train anyone I wouldn't make any
money but if you think about it what can
you make as a personal trainer you know
I have friends that train celebrities in
LA and they can charge 250 bucks an hour
that's like the going rate out there
like I don't think I could charge 250
here in San Diego 50 bucks an hour but
yeah you can only make a couple hundred
bucks an hour sounds like crazy that I
would even say this but I you make way
more money online I don't I don't want
to be the guy that's like I charge $200
and like one training it's just so I
like training you know 6 10 15 20 people
at a time and that's what I prefer doing
and I just love working with a large
variety of people and I miss training
with men too like the men don't like
women all day long with different
messages it's like you know they're
being targeted by like this builds long
lean muscles or like this like you know
what I mean so they're always doubting
it's like women's bodies fluctuate and
they have a bad glute day or like a bad
you know bloated day and then they start
doubting the whole process that you know
reassure them a lot men know that weight
training you don't have to sell men on
weight training and getting strong and
progressive overload you know you just
know from like the age of 15 when we
start lifting weights that if we want
nice pecs we got a bench press a few
places
yeah I was going to say obviously you're
a huge influence in the fitness industry
and you've inspired many women thousands
of women millions of women around the
world with your work was there a point
in your career when you was at social
media first was it a bikini model on
stage first like what kind of launched
that growth online for you so when I
started out it was funny I was just
coming off being a high school math
teacher making like 30 grand a year so I
said I'm gonna start blogging I'm gonna
start social media
I don't need it a lot to survive so I
start blogging like four times a week
like the most published fitness expert
that you've written so much I mean I was
a workhorse I looked at I I always put
in long hours and you can only sustain
that if you love your field you know
we're so lucky to have found stuff we're
passionate about because most people
just look at work like they clock in
clock out they can't wait to go home for
the weekend and be done with it and I
even I'm like I don't have off days I I
train people
every single day I lift almost every day
I read stuff every day I some days more
than others but it's not torture for me
I'm so curious about it's what I'd be
doing if I had if I won the lottery and
had you know hundred million dollars in
the bank I would still be doing this so
so start off I was just blogging and
then doing social media but here's the
funny thing my Twitter I have an
identical twin brother and he's like you
need to go on Instagram I'm like Joel
I'm a business man I'm not trying to
yeah and I was so anti Instagram and
Joel's like trust me it's the wave of
the future and I'm like how you can't
link out like on Facebook Twitter you
post links to your blog to your whatever
you launch a new product a new theme
like here's my new e-book or something
you can't do that on stir gram and he's
like just trust me it's the wave of the
future and around that time I was so
pissed because Facebook changed their
algorithms and it's like I worked hard
for like five years on Facebook I think
I had like a hundred ten thousand
followers back then on Facebook and all
of a sudden went from like it was always
the same to I'd film a YouTube video
embedded in my blog write a blog
he's a thumbnail for the blog publish
the blog post that on Facebook and
Twitter and then send out a newsletter
it was like that was the process for so
many years and it worked well then I was
in Facebook change their algorithms did
I go from getting like 2,000 likes and
500 shares to getting 500 likes and
third
and I'm like this is stupid it took away
my power like I always had power as a
scientific guy if I wanted to someone
who spread in pseudoscience that I
wanted to do something but I could I
could leave me leave the algorithms out
of it and I could go viral but it was so
frustrating to me so I just I I was the
first guy I think to just I actually
just quit I quit Facebook I quit Twitter
I quit I put all my eggs in Instagram
and all the marketers back then they
were like Instagram followers and
they're all about the email marketing
and the newsletters and I'm never gonna
be the type of guy that like these guys
are crazy with their newsletter market
there's like dude split taste testing
I'm never gonna write two different
newsletters and test them and see which
one does better I don't care about
making money to that extent so yes send
out a newsletter like once a month it's
like here's some new stuff here are some
links have at it but I realized oh this
is crazy I'll post some on my Instagram
especially want stories came around you
can swipe up I'll put something on my
Instagram I my feet and my stories and I
would make I mean I'd also send it out
to my newsletter bird I'd make like five
times more money from Instagram in my
newsletter list and my newsletter list I
think is like 140 thousand right now but
I have like almost a million followers
on Instagram right now and I think
around like 50,000 people look at my
stories so so I guess the take home
point there is to be consistent with
your own content and obviously you are
always producing really great quality
content so it's definitely worked well I
think the turning point was was like
with with with its with my followers you
know for a while I didn't really if you
look back but you can kind of scroll
back it the evolution of my Instagram
and it used to be just my workouts I'd
film I work out at night and post my
workout and then I'd like repost and
infographics someone else did or
something you know what I mean
well I have I actually have my master's
degree in education secondary abut
curriculum instruction once I start
focusing and I'm a born teacher I like
educating people when I start focusing
on educating people don't make it about
me I mean our Thor or just some Greek
god 3043 or mold dude that you know like
I not a Greek god I follow me for my
crazy strength of physique they follow
me for my knowledge and I start helping
other people that's when when I start
doing infographics when I started making
it more about educating and then also
coming out to San Diego and all is funny
because all my colleagues were like you
don't charge people you need to respect
yourself right you and I'm going these
people don't get it I don't have to pay
any of these girls then they're tagging
me like crazy and then I share it so we
build each other up we've got building
each other we're all sharing each other
and reposting they they gain some life
always I gained some of their phones but
it gives me social proof when this girls
give me a big hugs and I love my coach
it makes me more relatable you know and
so I just saw it as a win-win and then I
gained the knowledge from training them
and so my followers start going up and
up and up and then I was talking to my
friend Carrie and she's like right
you're the world's glute expert you
don't have a flagship program ah yeah I
go off strong by breath she's like that
sounds like powerlifting he's gonna want
a powerful program from you and I'm like
well I do have booty by Brett
trademarked I've just never used it
she's like change it to booty by Brett
and actually promote it all filmed a
video and I actually hosted it
I went from 800 subscribers to like
2,200 like in like a couple weeks then
that just kept growing and growing and
now I think I have like you know might
the peak before the the quarantine some
people dropped out but it was at 65 50
paying me 30 bucks every four four weeks
so that's and that's just one of my
revenue streams I also make equipment I
also have so I flora
we wanted to ask you about we've got out
Jim here and we've got very specialized
equipment and that is definitely
something that we wanted to go down the
path of as you say you know the
introduction of just the name booty by
Brett just it boosted your business a
lot and and we're very aware of the
nature you know and the need for
prioritizing glutes especially for
females so we're in the process of
building a gym upstairs so this is a
base gym this is a specialized
performance gym and upstairs we wanted
to do a whole bunch of stuff with goods
and we thought you know what why don't
we ask Brett while he's there on what's
the best piece of equipment and he'd
advised that we should get for our our
our gym got squat racks and barbells and
all of those things got all the squat
racks and barbed arrows but I have so
I've got a but I've got all the machines
in storage right now like there's this
glue da derp that people love that's
like a abduction but hip hip extension
abduction machine any were like 20 and
they were like 30 and I believe
literally how it was crying glue drive
the booty builder the glute builder
that's what the rock use is that glute
builder you know he does its hip thrusts
the booty voter is probably the favorite
women love it I don't like it as much I
like the Nautilus glute Drive I actually
like hipster it's funny this is my hip
thruster right here and I don't like it
that much anymore what's nice about that
is see the pegs here see those see the
bands right here
you can also just you pure bear and hip
thrust and those those are really nice
but that's you know I actually prefer
hip dressing off the Smith machine and
with the Nautilus glute drive which is
right here here's the Nautilus glute
drive oh it's that one yeah yes some
people don't like to nautilus boot drive
some people don't like so here's my
philosophy now think about an Olympic
weight training center guess what you're
gonna get good at if you train an
Olympic weight training center squads
and cleans and stuff because so many
squat stands and platforms you
you're gonna get good at squatting and
you know so what I just did I cleared
this out and it's like you got it's just
a whole row of these benches
do you make those I make those so 10 10
glute benches and it's it's so nice
because they're the right height people
don't want to hit throw us off at all
bench weight losses upstairs so having a
few of them would be awesome and you've
got the the light bar so it's a more
narrow barbell and then you've got the
squat sponge you I have ten ten ten
girls hit thrusting at a time you yeah
oh my god are hip thrusting you know or
500 pounds and their glutes are amazing
so yeah me me it's like if you want your
girls getting good at squats you gotta
have squat stance and power racks you
want your girls getting good at hip
thrust you have a bunch of those and
they start out with those and they get
really really strong at I mean it's just
the right height so I would recommend
instead of saying you know cuz I've got
all the machines a bit of all I have the
reverse high for the 44 degree hyper I
love and I love things like here's this
lever squat machine that I have I love
this for for lunges you know what I mean
reverse lunges and like Bulgarian split
squats up that lever squat I've got the
hammer strange for stiff legs I've got
Nordic ham curl station right there I've
got the pitch sharp this shark 45 degree
hyper the seated hip abduction machine
you should get yeah when we do all sorts
of cool stuff of it like triple drop
sets I'll do eccentric eccentric a'right
Paul I may take over the east hundred
phase a typo I hope I put on like the
stack and I help them and the may take
over the East and I've got a hack squat
machine their knowledge through this is
my favorite leg press it's the side back
squat press that's the most comfortable
leg press I also have these t bells here
and those people love them it's just
some people can either squat
if I do strapless which is kind of like
a squat and a death mixed it's kind of
like they they go deep but they lean a
lot and then of course reverse hyper
right here this has been my work my
workstation for years that circle it's
like a playground for glutes very good
well I would say instead of trying to
get that booty builder and a matrix
glute trainer and that Nautilus glute
drive and all these the glute builder
and all these fancy things the glue da
tur just get a ton of those punches get
a ton of these and prioritize hip
dressing and then have plenty of bands
like the glute moves and stuff have
plenty of those and then and then start
working on obtaining some of the pricier
pieces because that's all women already
do their squats and deadlifts and lunges
then they also do their hip thrusts and
maybe get a good 45 degree high purse
for back extensions and then their
abduction work your set so that's what I
would recommend just before we wrap up
we would we always like to give our
girls some tips to take away with them
now that we're all in quarantine
Australia is actually quite strict at
the moment there's really heavy
restrictions and we train a lot of women
from home and we have bodyweight
programs ourselves but is there any
particular exercises that you love and
do you think that we can maintain muscle
mass in the glutes while training from
home or even or even gain and what about
strength as well what are your favorite
exercises frequency nope so okay during
this quarantine periods been interesting
because I've had some girls come I like
booty but a facebook page they're like I
feel like I've my glutes have gotten
bigger
it just works for them but I start doing
a lot of research and I'm like who are
they like most jacked guys that just
needs body weight like these gymnasts
and I thought there's all these jock
shredded gymnasts out there and I start
looking at their physiques and they're
actually not as impressive as I thought
male bodybuilders you know what I mean
even the natural bodybuilders so I know
in theory you can gain just as much
muscle from high reps but you gotta
progress things like don't just do get
to where you're doing 50 pushups work on
doing like self assisted one-arm
push-ups where you're you're doing sets
of 10 that are hard you know what I mean
handstand push-ups from a deficit where
it's really technology see people don't
they just stick to the don't just do hip
thrust you partner hip thrust where you
have your aggressions for the glute
bridge slash sheep thrust stuff at home
well single leg the single leg is play
the hardest if you don't have a partner
and and like me banded where you really
push out against the bands but that's
abduction with hip extension so it's
kind of hard like so then I'll start
doing like but I don't like confusing
people at all my page out there posting
like do 15 single egg right into 15 like
like come up to up with two legs I've
been down with one leg up with two legs
so it's II Cedric and then into beast
dance so it's like your glutes burning
like crazy but that's more of like a
circuit it's like where do you do
progressive overload so that's why I say
get to where you're doing pistol squats
take the time now is a good time to get
through you know work on pistols work on
single leg stuff work on this but I
don't think you can build as much muscle
without the barbell without dumbbells
without free weights but I do think you
can use an intelligent training programs
and maintain a lot of it or at least
gain build like say 85% of its you gotta
experiment to find what exercise work
well for you I know for me there are a
lot of people don't like frog pumps I
thought pumps hit my glutes so hard I do
high reps right you were doing some
research on the B stance how'd you go
with that yeah still having the date and
I look at it then I don't oh [__] but
some interesting stuff I need to like
summarize it but
different for the different lifts like
and and like like with hip thrust people
use that assistance like more than you
think especially at the top and it's
kind of for balance it's like in theory
we say with the B stance you're using
70% on one leg 30 persona on the other
for stability but as you go heavier and
heavier you start using that support leg
more and more and then different lifts
and some people use it more than others
so you see people hip thrusting like 315
B stance they're using both legs it's
more like again it's more like an
asymmetrical double leg like you really
gotta focus hard to only use that for a
balance you know well when you've done
some more research we'll come back to
you so we're going to wrap it up now you
mentioned before on your Instagram
you're about to hit 1 million followers
996 thousand that's amazing
congratulations so cool so you're
obviously doing lots of great things
that people want to see do you want to
just tell us what there's the rest of
2020 hold for the glute guy you know
glute lab and you know had every like
glue lab the book is 606 pages but I I
wrote about every single squat single
leg squat deadlift hip thrusts like
every exercise there was and I really
went in depth they let me include
everything I got to co-op this stuff
I've talked about today they let me
include that in on their training around
injury diet stuff like macros all that
stuff it's a really comprehensive book
that took me two years of my life and it
almost killed me so not just now yeah
that's out there and Amazon but I worked
so hard on that I'm like my goal now is
the don't screw I have this habit of
once my life gets good I didn't screw it
up by taking on two stuffed anything
don't don't take on any new projects
just enjoy what you have and I could you
know don't get too overwhelmed so that's
my goal right now is not get to everyone
I know what a crazy time we're into
right now with the
it's a good time to take a step back and
chill out a little bit when the gyms are
gonna reopen and how everything's gonna
look but you know also my lease ends in
October I sit here and I want a bigger
Jim this is 1,800 square feet I want
5,000 square foot I miss having a for me
like I want a leg extension I want a leg
curl machine I want the lot of raised
machines I love those I want the free
the free motion duel look at what tool
tree I miss these things and I don't
have room for selfish that's okay we're
exactly the same we built this place
just for us as well so we get you where
we're on that side as well [__] I wasn't
planning on building a gym here I just
thought I'd train it all these I just
get a bunch of memberships and I went
home and I was underwhelmed and I'm like
God I don't like training overall so
with Instagram I'd be having a shoulder
tap people and be like hey bro you might
as the person in the background doing
one arm rows like with the worst like
definitely need your own space Instagram
is that the best place for people to
find you and if it is what is what are
your handles where can people find you
our broken chairs one I think you can
type in like blue guy and it comes up if
you don't remember Brett Contreras but
our Brett Contreras was taken by some
dude that's posted like twice I wish I
could override it just one one one meter
he's not tagged is like like four glutes
and he's gone what is this guy obsessed
with link tree and like you can link
tree you can subscribe to the newsletter
and find all my other stuff thank you so
much for joining us today if he's light
in the afternoon they're in San Diego we
are about to start our day here but I'm
very inspired to go train my glutes
right now it was great to meet you thank
you so much for coming on and I would
love to come work out with you guys if
you guys are
nice verse a hundred percent we would
love to come and do a session there with
you we'll be heading to the states as
soon as they open the border so when
they do that we will make sure we make a
trip to you awesome thanks for having me
okay bye